now the mariana trench is the deepest
and probably the most enigmatic place on
earth
whatever that means bizarre creatures
such as deep sea angler fish
frilled and goblin sharks barrel-eyed
fish
hatchet fish live in a crescent-shaped
trench in the western pacific just three
people have ever descended down the
challenger deep in the southern end of
the mariana trench
there at a depth of almost 11 000 feet
vents are bubbling up carbon dioxide in
liquid sulfur
mud volcanoes erupt under the pressure a
thousand times greater than at the
surface
and so it's no place i want to go so bye
get back in there all right all right
since you clicked
yeah you're about to visit places no
less mysterious and creepy
than the mariana trench
[Music]
your first stop is mexico the yucatan
peninsula to be precise
see those bottomless sinkholes filled
with crystal clear water
it's fresh water that overlies salt
water seeping from the sea
the sinkholes are called cenotes the
mayans believe
these natural wells were the gateways to
the underworld
thousands of cenotes created by
collapsed limestone bedrock
form one of the world's longest
underwater cave systems
you can easily get lost in this tangled
mysterious network
[Music]
now it's time to visit the caribbean
there you'll get to a depth of almost
eight thousand feet to see the von dam
vent field
the hydrothermal vents fire out streams
of
muddy scalding water with a temperature
reaching 400 degrees fahrenheit
that's almost enough to bake a pizza
these mounds are made of talc
a substance you can find in baby powder
the von dam vent field is an oasis for
odd species
one of those is kind of a creepy shrimp
without eyes
instead they're equipped with patches of
light sensitive cells on their backs
now you don't have to travel far away
the next enigma
on your list is also in the caribbean
just off the coast of belize
there is a giant sinkhole it's also blue
yep that's the great blue hole the thing
is about a thousand feet across and more
than 400 feet deep
once a long long time ago this hole was
a cave
until rising waters filled it making it
collapse in on itself
the deeper you descend into the great
hall's crystalline waters
the darker it becomes you see tons of
stalactite-filled caves
but don't even try to enter them unless
you want to get hopelessly lost
once you reach a depth of 50 feet you
notice the water shimmer
as the invisible line dividing the
sinkhole salty top
from the freshwater abyss time to get
out of there
who knows what you might come across in
the murky depths
your next destination is off the pacific
northwest coast
almost 500 streams of methane bubbles
were discovered there several years ago
because of the bubbles the vince got the
name champagne
seeps which sounds better than the fart
spas
scientists are still puzzling over this
phenomenon where does the methane come
from
underwater cows why is this temperature
warmer than that of the surrounding
ocean
and most importantly what would happen
if you managed to light a mat somewhere
near a large bubble
methane needs a highly flammable gas and
setting a methane bubble on fire
well you get the picture and now
you're off to iceland the plan is to
dive into silfra
a fissure filled with pure glacier water
this 206 foot deep crack is the only
underwater place on the planet
where you can touch two continents at
once the deeper you go
the darker it becomes the rocky
landscape looks
otherworldly divers who dare to visit
this incredible place
risk having their gear frozen getting
hypothermia
or not surviving whatsoever after all
the water temperature in silver
fissure is about 35 degrees fahrenheit
year round
your next destination is scotland okay
cue the bagpipes
if you dive in the gulf of korevrecken a
narrow strait between two islands
you'll see massive underwater rocks and
deep holes
they create the third largest permanent
whirlpool on the planet
the corey wreckin maelstrom the water
moves through the strait at breakneck
speed
it hits the underwater rocks and the
place looks like a pot with boiling
water
the waves created in the process
sometimes reach a height of 15 feet
and you can still hear the roaring
whirlpool from 10 miles away
it's believed the corey of reckon
maelstrom has swallowed dozens of
sailors over the centuries
they were caught unaware by the ferocity
of this natural phenomenon
and pulled underwater in the blink of an
eye
okay enough bagpipes your adventures are
getting more and more extreme
you're heading for antarctica there in
the southern ocean
you'll find the raw sea ice shelf say
that five times real fast
later not now it's roughly the size of
spain
with the ocean underneath containing as
much water as the north sea
once scientists drilled all the way down
through this enormous chunk of eyes
imagine their astonishment when they
found life in those extreme conditions
the researchers came across dozens of
mysterious species not
known before the most unnerving were
upside
down swimming fish and overturned sea
anemones
hanging in the frigid waters
hopefully bizarre places with a
notorious reputation
don't frighten you well too bad because
you're about to visit the bermuda
triangle
it's an area between bermuda florida and
puerto rico
where planes and ships seem to vanish in
thin air
for the first time this place attracted
a lot of attention in 1945
that's when five u.s navy planes
disappeared during training
before radio contact was lost the flight
leader said
we're entering white water nothing seems
right
after that the planes with 14 men flying
them
disappeared even scarier a rescue plane
with 13 people on board
never came back as well some people
believe the mythical city of atlantis
lies at the bottom of the triangle
they claim its inhabitants use
extraterrestrial technologies to sink
ships and crash airplanes others blame
rare and unexplored natural phenomenon
for example magnetic anomalies or
massive pockets of flammable methane gas
there we go again then if a bolt of
lightning ignited a giant methane bubble
near a ship or a plane
this could probably make it sink without
a trace except the smell
but methane is found everywhere all over
the world
and it never behaves this way some
experts aren't sure there's a mystery to
explain whatsoever
lots of busy routes pass through this
area no wonder more ships and planes
sink there than
anywhere else now prepare some warm
clothes
you're heading for the north again your
destination is
cape desolation in greenland nice place
in 2012 canadian researchers were
sampling the water in that area
and their equipment came back to the
surface with pieces of coral attached to
it
that's how a cold water coral reef was
stumbled across
these unique pinkish corals can easily
go without sunlight
and live in strong currents three
thousand feet below
the surface another unique spot you
can't miss
lies between greenland and siberia the
gecko ridge is the deepest and most
remote
portion of the global mid ocean ridge
system
in some places it reaches the depth of
more than three miles
it's only natural the darkest corners of
this underwater world
remain unexplored fascinating chemical
reactions happening at the bottom of the
ridge
produce hot fluids rich in minerals they
spew
like freshmen at a rush party from
seafloor vents
and since these vents are isolated from
the rest of the ocean
there are hot spots for bizarre
creatures found nowhere else in the
world
your next stop is just off the coast of
cuba
circular columns paved floors
symmetrical stone structures
that's what the cuban underwater city
looks like
what happened there why was a large city
abandoned
at a depth of more than two thousand
feet lots of people believe
those are the ruins of a long forgotten
civilization
but scientists have their doubts they
claim the lost city is nothing but a
natural phenomenon that appeared about
five million years ago
the disc and doughnut structures often
appear around the areas of the sea floor
where
natural gases break free again with the
gases
when you come to visit the sargasso sea
in the middle of the north atlantic
ocean
you won't find its shores instead it's
surrounded by powerful ocean currents
these are the same currents that turn
the sea into a gigantic convention for
dense brown seaweed
in the 19th century a french ship was
discovered in the sargasso sea
its sails were set but not a single crew
member was on board
this mysterious disappearance made
people believe the seaweed was
carnivorous the sargasso sea is indeed a
weird place
it's always eerily calm and unnaturally
warm
even though it's surrounded by the
churning freezing waters of the atlantic
ocean
could one of these bizarre places become
a home to the largest marine predator
ever
the megalodon the giant sharks teeth
some larger than an adult man's hand
have been found pretty much all over the
world
but since these creatures preferred warm
shallow waters
they lived along the coastlines of all
continents except antarctica
in other words it'd be a waste of time
to search for the giant predator in the
depths of the mariana trench
in greenland or in mexican cenotes but
then
could it choose the waters of the
caribbean to hide from the hustle and
bustle of the modern world
eh don't get your hopes up there's been
no proof
the megalodon does exist these days it
wasn't a shy elusive animal
and still no one has seen this shark
lurking around recently
not even near the fart spas